.. _install-config-ras-db-handbook:

Software installation and configuration
========================================

Proper installation and configuration of essential software is critical
for database functionality. Rackspace will install and configure the
necessary software for a variety of databases, including:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 50 50
   :header-rows: 0

   * - Oracle

       -  Oracle Grid or Clusterware
       -  Oracle database software
       -  Oracle GoldenGate
       -  Oracle Apex
       -  Oracle client software on computers connecting to the database
     - MySQL

       -  MySQL database software
       -  Enabling master/slave and master/master replication
       -  Oracle Grid or Clusterware with MySQL
       -  MySQL cluster
       -  MariaDB Galera cluster
       -  Percona XtraDB cluster

   * - Microsoft SQL-Server

       -  Configuring clustering
       -  Mirroring
       -  Log shipping
       -  Replication
       -  HADR configuring and clustering
     - MongoDB

       -  Configuring and installation
       -  Replica sets
       -  Sharding

   * - Cassandra and DataStax Enterprise

       -  Install software
       -  Configure
       -  Replica sets
       -  Sharding
     - PostgreSQL & EnterpriseDB

       -  Install software
       -  Configuring clustering
       -  Replication

   * - Couchbase & CouchDB

       - Install software
       - Configure
       - Replica sets
       - Sharding

     -

Additional database platforms can be supported upon request. Rackspace
has a wide variety of partners who can offer support, and Rackers
willing to learn a new technology. If your chosen is not already
supported, let us know.

Modification and configuration services
----------------------------------------

Though clients are responsible for database content, Rackspace performs
modification and configuration tasks in accordance with explicit client
instructions.

Connectivity management
------------------------

DBAs manage connectivity between the client application and database(s)
in order to ensure efficient and uninterrupted communication. Utilizing
database performance tools, administrators can identify database tasks
that are not tuned for optimal performance. Rackspace assists clients in
designing connection pooling strategies to maximize usability of their
database infrastructure. This service can be provided as an initial
design requirement or on an on-going basis. Performance tools include:

-  SQL*Net
-  JDBC connection pools
-  Oracle SQL*Net


Event notification
-------------------

If threshold warning levels exceed a critical parameter, an alert is
sent to the monitoring system. Based on the specific alert, a ticket is
created that notifies the Support Team as to when the client needs to be
contacted. Rackspace collaborates with the client to resolve problems
within an agreed upon timeframe.
