.. _mgd-dbs-ras-db-handbook:

Managed Databases
==================

This section lists the SQL and non-SQL managed databases and services.

Managed SQL Databases
----------------------

Rackspace supports MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, and Oracle
databases running on cloud or dedicated infrastructure providing a
comprehensive plan, build and run process. Running Oracle RAC
environments can be a complex task for enterprises. Rackspace expert
Database management team assists clients on designs with their depth of
knowledge on Oracle products and database clustering and associated
technologies. Whether those solutions are running on Windows or
Linux/Unix Operating systems, Rackspace experts can design and support a
wide variety of solutions. The Database services section below provides
a description of the service provided on these technologies.

Managed non-SQL Databases
--------------------------

Rackspace supports NoSQL database deployments for its clients ensuring
the performance, scalability, security and availability meets enterprise
level requirements. Rackspace experts can assist clients in designing,
architecting the complete stack of the solution from the network to the
database. Rackspace supports a broad array of platforms to design a
solution to meet client specific requirements. For example, Rackspace
partners with DataStax to offer an enterprise grade Apache Cassandra
offering and with Couchbase to offer a fully supported, monitored and
enterprise grade CouchDB solution.

Enterprise grade solutions provide fully supported software with
comprehensive vendor support, training, best practice guidance and
escalation support for timely problem resolution along with service
level agreements (SLAs) providing an enterprise the governance and
environment stability they expect. Rackspaceâ€™s partnerships with leading
vendors allows its clients to take advantage of this higher level of
expertise and guidance in designing and supporting these leading
databases.

Database Services
------------------

Database Management of all supported database platforms consists of the
following services:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 50
   :header-rows: 0

   * - * Managed End-to-End (E2E) onboarding and migrations
     - * DB Troubleshooting
   * - * Software installation, patch application, and upgrades
     - * Data rescue service
   * - * Monthly Licensing Options
     - * Database restoration service
   * - * Database administration and maintenance
     - * Cold backup, hot backup, and data export
   * - * Capacity planning
     - * Disaster recovery service
   * - * Database security management
     - * Database modification services
   * - * Clustered (High Availability) solutions with no single notification points of failure
     - * Connection management
   * - * Database replication
     - * Monitoring and event notification
   * - * Storage architecture
     - * Slow query detection and analysis
   * - * Auditing assistance
     - * Index maintenance
   * - * Data warehouse architecture and maintenance
     - * Statistics gathering
   * - * Performance tuning
     - * Modification and configuration Services
   * -
     - * Memory utilization recommendations

Monthly Licensing Options
--------------------------

Rackspace can provide convenient monthly licensing options for the
following databases: Microsoft SQL server, Oracle (Oracle MySQL
enterprise edition, Oracle Database Standard or Enterprise edition, 11g,
12c), and DataStax Cassandra Enterprise.

In addition, Rackspace can provide pricing options for database platform
and service offerings from AWS and Microsoft Azure as part of a solution
for clients.

Supported Databases
--------------------

.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 40 40
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Database vendor
     - Software versions
     - OS versions
   * - Oracle
     - 11g R1, 11g R2, 12c
     -
       - Oracle Linux 6, 7
       - Oracle Solaris 10/11
       - Red Hat Linux 6, 7
       - Windows 2012+
   * - Microsoft SQL-Servers
     - 2008, 2008R2, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017
     -
       - Windows 2008, 2008 R2, 2012, 2012 R2, 2006
   * - MySQL Server
     - 5.5 and up
     -
       - Oracle Solaris 10/11
       - Red Hat Linux 6,7
       - Oracle Linux 6,7
       - Windows 2008/2012
   * - DB2
     - 9.1, 9.5, 9.7
     -
       - Red Hat Linux 6
       - Oracle Solaris 10
       - Windows 2008, 2012, 2016
   * - PostgreSQL
     - 9.0,- 9.4+
     -
       - Oracle Linux 6, 7
       - Red Hat Linux 6, 7
       - Oracle Solaris 10/11
       - Windows 2012, 2016
   * - MongoDB
     - 2.6, 3.0
     -
       - Oracle Linux 6, 7
       - SUSE Linux
       - Amazon Linux AMI
       - Ubuntu
       - Red Hat Linux 6, 7
       - Windows 2008, 2012, 2016
   * - Apache Cassandra & DataStax Enterprise
     - 2.0, 2.1, and 4.6 DataStax Enterprise
     -
       - Oracle Linux 6, 7
       - Debian
       - Amazon Linux AMI
       - Ubuntu
       - Red Hat Linux 6, 7
       - Windows 2008/2012
   * - CouchDB & Couchbase
     - 5.x
     -
       - Oracle Linux 6, 7
       - Debian
       - Ubuntu
       - Red Hat Linux 6, 7
       - Windows 2012, 2016
