.. _overview-ras-db-handbook:

Overview
=========

Rackspace’s Application Services for Databases (DBA Services) offering
encompasses all setup, management, and maintenance activities for
clients’ database servers, and includes OS and database application
support. Certified Database Administrators (DBAs) improve performance
through optimized database design, tuning, and troubleshooting services.
Additionally, this service includes proactive monitoring, reporting, and
support for environments on approved systems. Rackspace’s Database
Management team can design and architect a solution based on a client’s
specific needs and on a variety of infrastructure including dedicated
physical hardware or a Hosted Private Cloud at any of Rackspace’s global
data centers or utilizing and integrating with AWS or Azure public cloud
resources.

Rackspace is an Oracle Gold Partner, a Microsoft Gold Hosting Partner,
an AWS Premier Consulting Partner, and a DataStax Alliance Partner among
others. Rackspace’s partnership with leading database suppliers and
platforms allows it to provide users with the highest level of support
with leading technologies.

Rackspace’s deep database expertise has included engagements with
enterprise clients where Rackspace manages the key components in global
architectures. These include solutions utilizing AWS Direct Connect and
Rackspace hosted highly available Oracle RAC database clusters and SQL
server clusters to provide a complete hybrid solution coupling the AWS
cloud with Rackspace’s managed services and dedicated equipment.
Rackspace hosts and supports enterprise databases for multi-node HA
designs and is able to meet a wide variety of use cases.

The Rackspace database team is highly skilled in deploying and managing
MySQL clusters on Percona XtraDB for an active/active high availability
design to meet client requirements. The team designs NoSQL replica sets
and clusters using MongoDB, Cassandra, and others.

The primary DBA
----------------

Every DBA Services account will be assigned a Primary DBA. A Primary DBA
is a highly skilled and experienced database administrator who will
become the expert on the data platform. They provide the strategic
oversite for the data plane, understanding the customer’s business need
and ensuring that Rackspace remains focused on the customer’s desired
outcome. The Primary DBA works closely with the Service Delivery team,
processing regular database health reviews and capacity reviews, which
are then provided to the customer during regular monthly or quarterly
business reviews. Most Primary DBAs are US based and available during
normal business hours. However, Primary DBAs in other geographies or
time zones can be available.

The Database Operations Team
-----------------------------

The Primary DBAs are supported by our 24x7x365 team of our DBA
operations teams. These DBAs handle all alert triage, simple
maintenances, and any break-fix troubleshooting that may occur during
the life of the database. They also, with the direction provided by the
Primary DBA, process all scheduled maintenances for the database
platform. The Database Operations team are full time Rackspace employees
based out of our offices in India.
